Sometimes, I think all of us would agree that it's easy to see Jehovah's hand when things are going well,
when we get a court victory, when someone's health improves,
or maybe when someone really asks to come to study the Bible with us and they're at our meetings.
But it's harder to see Jehovah's hand when we see bad things happen, either to us or our brothers and sisters.
So we may wonder, how can we see Jehovah's hand when bad things are happening?
Well, you can see my hand right now, right?
But if I put it away, you can't see it.
Now, do you assume because you can't see my hand that I don't have a hand anymore?
Well, no, you reasoned on the fact that you see the rest of me and there's probably still my hand attached.
So likewise, there are times when it's easy to see Jehovah's hand,
and there are other times when we have to reason on what we know about Jehovah in order to see his hand in action.
So let's consider one thing.
What do we know about Jehovah that we could reason that his hand is in action?
Well, let's reason on the point that he is a happy God.
Now, how does Jehovah stay happy seeing all the bad things that are happening?
Maybe you've wondered that.
I know it's crossed my mind, how does Jehovah stay happy when he sees all the suffering that's going on?
And frankly, he sees all the suffering. He sees everything going on.
I know how I feel, and you probably know how you feel, just when you read about what's happening to our brothers in Venezuela,
or in Russia, or with all of the hurricanes and earthquakes that we've had in recent times,
and we see the suffering, not only of our brothers and sisters, but of other people,
and we consider how can Jehovah stay happy when he knows all of what is happening?
Well, let's consider three. I'm sure of many reasons why Jehovah can stay happy,
even though he knows all the suffering, and then we can see how that could benefit us as well.
First of all, his hand is hard at work preparing the new world for us.
And I think Jeremiah chapter 29 verse 11 really covers how Jehovah feels about the future for us.
Jeremiah 29-11, he says, where I will know the thoughts that I am thinking towards you declares Jehovah,
thoughts of peace and not of calamity, to give you a future and a hope.
So Jehovah is not simply just watching events occur. He's actively working on the solution.
He, along with Jesus and the heavenly angels, are working hard on the kingdom.
Now, we can't see end of heaven right now, but I want you to just imagine all the activity of the angels,
the resurrected andointed brothers, Jesus, working hard on making preparations
for Armageddon and the new world. Just think of all the work we're doing just to prepare for the annual meeting and dedication.
Can you imagine all the work going on in heaven that is there? I mean, how far along are the new scrolls?
How are basic needs as far as clean water, food, and homes going to be provided for the survivors?
So, while we can't see into heaven, we know that his hand is there.
So Jehovah is happy because he's actively working right now to make things better for us.
What lesson for us? We can be happy when we see the suffering around us,
because we know what Jehovah and our brothers are doing up there to prepare for the new world.
A second point about how Jehovah can be happy is that he can comfort us right now. He is happy when he can do that.
In verse 12 of Jeremiah chapter 29,
Jehovah continued after saying that he was working on the future,
he says, and you will call me and come and pray to me and I will listen to you.
So, I love this point because Jehovah is saying, don't worry, I'm taking care of building a better future for you.
And we appreciate it. If we're going through some trial, some very difficulty,
and a good friend of ours reminds us, remember, things are going to get better in the future.
Jehovah is going to change this. It's going to get better. It is comforting.
But it is also comforting, like Jehovah does here in verse 12, when the person says,
what can I do for you right now? And Jehovah is saying, right now, come, pray to me.
Jehovah is there to comfort and help us.
We could kind of illustrate the way Jehovah feels by thinking about parents
and how they deal with a small child.
You've ever seen a small child, maybe two, three years of age,
and they really fall badly and scrape their knees badly.
And they are screaming in pain. There's this red liquid leaking out of them.
They are distraught. In fact, in that child's mind,
he may think, this is the end of it. This is end of life as I know it.
I'm never going to recover from this. I'm going to die.
But the parent, of course, their perspective is different, isn't it?
But they comfort the child. They help to take care of the skinny, they comfort them,
and they tell them, you're going to live. It's going to be okay.
It's going to be all right. And why can the parent have that view?
Because they know in a few hours, maybe, at least in a week or so,
child's not even going to remember that skinny. It's going to be just a very distant memory.
Well, see, Jehovah also knows that whatever we're going through right now,
whatever suffering we may be going through now, that soon in that new world,
we aren't going to recall that suffering.
And he knows that he can solve any problem we're facing as easily as we heal from a scraped knee.
He knows our whole eternal lives are ahead of us.
So he comforts us, he listens to our heartfelt prayers,
and like a kind parent, he's telling us through our brothers, the Bible,
and Holy Spirit, you will live.
See, Jehovah's happy because right now, what can he do? He can comfort us and help us.
Well, the lesson for us, we can comfort and help others.
We're really kind of all in this lifeboat together,
trying to make it to the new world shore, and we can help one another.
Third, his hand is patiently waiting for the right time to act.
See, Jehovah is waiting patiently for the complete vindication of his sovereignty.
I really love what the June 2017 Watchtower article,
keep your eyes on the big issue, said,
let us not become so absorbed in our own lives that we lose sight of the big issue,
the vindication of Jehovah's sovereignty,
and let us appreciate that our role in this vital issue entails remaining faithful,
even under difficult circumstances.
Isn't that a beautiful quote to think about?
See, Jehovah knows that by his being patient now,
he and all his faithful servants will never have to go through this again.
The issue of sovereignty will be completely settled.
I mean, don't you admire Jehovah's patience?
I mean, to watch all that is happening,
and to have the self-control to wait for the appointed time is truly an example of patience in action.
You know, when we think about the different situations,
our brothers and sisters in other's face,
when a mother, for example, watches a handicapped son struggle to walk or to talk,
or a husband watches his wife struggle to breathe,
you know, we want so much at that moment to press that big red start the new world button now.
But when you have that feeling, remember our text for today,
the hand of Jehovah will become known to his servants.
What lesson for us?
We need to be patient and keep our eyes on the big issue of Jehovah's sovereignty.
So let's just review those three points.
How can we see Jehovah's hand and be happy when we see all of this suffering around us?
Well, we can be happy knowing what Jehovah and Jesus
and the resurrected andointed are doing right now to prepare for the new world.
And we can be happy because we have a role in comforting and helping others.
And we can be happy being patient knowing why we're being patient.
We have our eyes on that big issue of Jehovah's sovereignty.
See, we may not always be able to see Jehovah's hand,
but we can be sure, as our text for today says,
that Jehovah's hand is there and it will become known.